Update index.rst (#5)
dh73/axi_appnote: docs/source/index.rst

========
Abstract
========
Due the popularity of AMBA protocols, AXI4 specifically, and trying to help our community to develop high quality designs with formal methods as easily as possible, we decided to create a Formal VIP for this protocol (yes, once again, but this time we tried to do it right). So in this AppNote we show you the results.

This AppNote will cover the following topics:
    * A quick glance at the newly refreshed (SVA-AXI4-FVIP)[https://github.com/YosysHQ-GmbH/SVA-AXI4-FVIP].
    * Parameters and configuration descriptions.
    * An usage example in an interconnect design.

============
Introduction
============
Everyone in the industry has ever heard about Verification IP (VIP), how these magical things can save
hours of development, testing and integration. Somehow, CAD vendors sweeten the ears of all of us, who at
some point have needed to verify some complex component. They say, it's just as easy as connect it and tada!, all the
bugs are shown so engineers can solve them quickly.

Then, you get the VIP and collateral (**$omehow**) and you realize that:
    * The documentation is not very understandable.

>     * There is barely any quick start example, or the one that is delivered is as trivial as it is useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * It barely has a quick start example, or the one that is delivered is as trivial as it is useful.
```

    * It contains a lot of scripts, setup configurations and all sort of things that are not compatible
      with the configuration of the design that you are testing right now. So you need to do more work to
      integrate a component for the component that you want to integrate into your project.
    * Among lots of other things.

Where is the Return of Investment (ROI) and low Time To Market (TTM) that the company that sells
the VIP was talking about?.

> Despite this bad first approach, you decide to go ahead and give it a chance, It can't be that bad, right?.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite this bad first approach, you decide to go ahead and give it a chance, it can't be that bad, right?.
```

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

The assertion does not hold at clock cycle 5, and you cannot trace back *legal_wrap_pre* nor *legal_wrap_con*

> signals because they are **encrypted**. Sometimes there is a message accompanying the property in the *fail statement* (where statements like *else*, *$info*, *$error*, etc, can be employed) that you can use to read the respective section of the specification where such behavior is described. For simple invariant (properties that holds despite input stimulus) such as handshakes, there is no complication. But for properties that depends on composed behaviors (data flow trackers like the CAM that most companies uses to track AXI IDs) it's another story. If you can't see what's going on inside, it's very easy to get lost: The AMBA spec says how things should behave, but not how everyone should build a VIP. The VIP tells you have a problem, but it doesn't help you to debug and fix it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
signals because they are **encrypted**. Sometimes there is a message accompanying the property in the *fail statement* (where statements like *else*, *$info*, *$error*, etc, can be employed) that you can use to read the respective section of the specification where such behavior is described. For simple invariants (properties that holds despite input stimulus) such as handshakes, it's simple. But for properties that depend on composed behaviors (data flow trackers like the CAM that most companies uses to track AXI IDs) it's another story. If you can't see what's going on inside, it's very easy to get lost: the AMBA spec says how things should behave, but not how everyone should build a VIP. The VIP tells you have a problem, but it doesn't help you to debug and fix it.
```

> But, to be fair, not everything is the CAD companies fault. Developing a VIP is complicated. The engineers who write these VIPs needs to understand with great detail the specification, and exchange communications (emails) with the specification architects to clarify one thing or another. Speaking for example of the AMBA AXI and ACE Protocol Specification [missing link], almost everything is explained there, some things more detailed, some others miss  important information, or the second piece of info is indexed in an another part of the document or even worse, in another specification (try to read Atomic Accesses related sections knowing that any missing link is hidden in the Exclusive Monitor instructions (LDXR/STXR) programmer's guide, because is ARM, and they share the same principles for most of their products).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, to be fair, not everything is the CAD company's fault. Developing a VIP is complicated. The engineers who write these VIPs need to understand with great detail the specification, and exchange communications (emails) with the specification architects to clarify one thing or another. Speaking for example of the AMBA AXI and ACE Protocol Specification [missing link], almost everything is explained there, some things are more detailed, some others miss important information, or the second piece of info is indexed in another part of the document or even worse, in another specification (try to read Atomic Accesses related sections knowing that any missing link is hidden in the Exclusive Monitor instructions (LDXR/STXR) programmer's guide, because is ARM, and they share the same principles for most of their products).
```

        * No interleaving.
    * No transaction caching, buffering or modifications.
        * Same bus width on all interfaces.
    * Written in simple SystemVerilog constructs for portability.
    * ARM recommended checks:
        * Low power channel interface.
        * X-propagation interface.
        * Deadlock checks.
    * Comprehensible documentation.
        * User guide.
        * Methodology guide.
        * Examples.
        * Instantiation templates.

.. note::

>     Full AXI4 implementation is possible. In fact, at the moment of writing this AppNote, we have the capacity to test more than one transaction at a time, out-of-order transactions, full exclusive transaction monitors, data interleave, etc. But for the purpose of simplicity, and because these features cover most of the cases, we decided to release the IP in this state. The released FVIP has the required logic to add these features easily, which is another advantage of the open source components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A full AXI4 implementation is possible. In fact, at the moment of writing this AppNote, we have the capacity to test more than one transaction at a time, out-of-order transactions, full exclusive transaction monitors, data interleave, etc. But for the purpose of simplicity, and because these features cover most of the cases, we decided to release the IP in this state. The released FVIP has the required logic to add these features easily, which is another advantage of the open source components.
```

------------
Architecture
------------
We designed the AXI4 SVA FVIP keeping in mind the fundamental architectural descriptions in the AMBA AXI4 IHI0022E spec (A1.3 AXI Architecture):
    * Each channel (W, AW, B, AR, R) is defined on its own module, and each module contains only the properties that are necessary for the AXI4 channel.

>         * In this way, each verification engineer can focus on certain channel without the hurdle of loading tons of checks that are not of interest for the test in question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * In this way, each verification engineer can focus on a certain channel without the hurdle of loading tons of checks that are not of interest for the test in question.
```

        * Some `let binders` are helpful to root-cause issues when calculations or temporal transactions are utilised. When they are deasserted, the user can follow the definition of the `let binder` and easily find the time where that requirement failed, and why.

>         * Properties receive the signals of interest as arguments, so its easy to add them in the waveform (for tools that automatically opens debugger with COI signals, you will have everything you need in zero time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * Properties receive the signals of interest as arguments, so it's easy to add them in the waveform (for tools that automatically open the debugger with COI signals, you will have everything you need in zero time).
```

    * And last but not least, the implemented checks are compliant with ARM AMBA AXI4 IHI0022E.
        * That means we did not just define things based on our interpretation of the descriptions in the spec, but followed them strictly.
        * We developed an infrastructure to verify our implementation based on information that is publicly available at ARM website.

.. note::

>     We are an small company, we have no partnership with ARM. If there is any misinterpretation please let us know, but at the moment we have no seen any divergence between results of public ARM verification IP and ours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We are a small company, we have no partnership with ARM. If there is any misinterpretation please let us know, but at the moment we have no seen any divergence between results of public ARM verification IP and ours.
```

                       "occurs (A3.2.1 Handshake process, pA3-39).");
      end

> The user can drag and drop the signals to the waveform, only the ones stated in the property, and look at the message and/or the package where this property is defined to start debugging. Sometimes, the message in the assertion is so clear that there might be not need to lookup at the spec, but never trust code, it is recommended to confirm the relevant reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can drag and drop the signals to the waveform, only the ones stated in the property, and look at the message and/or the package where this property is defined to start debugging. Sometimes, the message in the assertion is so clear that there might be no need to look up the spec, but never trust code; it is recommended to confirm the relevant reference.
```

    * For the *channel relationships* and taking into account the features of this FVIP, the write transaction must complete before issuing another one, so the *depth should be sufficient to allocate enough time for this completion w.r.t the DUT*, plus some extra cycles to explore.
    * Therefore, the *default settings of SBY should be enough in most cases*, unless modifications to the already mentioned parameters are applied, in which case the recommendations already described should be followed.

Our FVIP contains many cover properties to help decide if the depth is good enough (covers reached) or if it should be increased (unreachable covers).

K-induction with AXI SVA FVIP
-----------------------------
Everyone knows the equation of mathematical induction, but it's proven difficult to really understand what it means for formal verification. To help explain further, look at the example drawing located in the **Appendix A** if this document.

> The real difficulties come with an inductive invariant. Remember that k-induction frees up the initial state, so a well defined, strong and complete set of assertions and correct initial values in registers, makes k-induction proofs happy. And the depth?, as discussed in **Appendix A**, it can be as low as the employed inductive invariants permits. For the SVA AXI FVIP, the properties should not cause *undetermined* results in induction as long as the DUT is configured as expected (for example, that all the registers are correctly initialised). For advanced flows, the user can abstract this initial state and get the most out of k-induction (for example, in an interconnect verification, the user can abstract the initial state so the subordinates have many valid transactions pending, and check how the manager reacts from the first clock cycle).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The real difficulties come with an inductive invariant. Remember that k-induction frees up the initial state, so a well defined, strong and complete set of assertions and correct initial values in registers, makes k-induction proofs happy. And the depth? As discussed in **Appendix A**, it can be as low as the employed inductive invariants permits. For the SVA AXI FVIP, the properties should not cause *undetermined* results in induction as long as the DUT is configured as expected (for example, that all the registers are correctly initialised). For advanced flows, the user can abstract this initial state and get the most out of k-induction (for example, in an interconnect verification, the user can abstract the initial state so the subordinates have many valid transactions pending, and check how the manager reacts from the first clock cycle).
```

As with BMC, the default configuration of SBY may be enough for most of the cases, and modifications would be needed only if different parameters or the design changes in complexity.

------------------
Boolean Properties
------------------
Most properties in the AXI SVA FVIP are described using Boolean operators, so all bit-level solvers are happy with them. We wanted to explore some things using the SMT solvers technology in [TabbyCAD](https://www.yosyshq.com/products-and-services), but after some struggles with other users and tools, we decided to keep this as simple as possible.

------------------------
Data Tracking Invariants
------------------------

> Control properties are easy to describe in the AXI4 protocol, what is more tricky is to formalise the properties where data tracking is required, for example, atomic transactions and dependencies between channels. We will use the latter as an example for this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control properties are easy to describe in the AXI4 protocol; what is more tricky is to formalise the properties where data tracking is required, for example, atomic transactions and dependencies between channels. We will use the latter as an example for this section.
```

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

What this means in short is, for a subordinate to show a *valid response*, the following events must have happened:
    * A valid address write, signalled by the completion of the AW channel (AWVALID & AWREADY handshake).
        * Here, we store the AWID, the tag of such transaction.
    * Of course, the data of such address request must have completed as well (completion signalled by the handshake of WVALID & WREADY).
        * A very important item of information here is that *WLAST* should occur first before asserting *WVALID*, so when we have a handshake in the W channel, we store the WLAST value as well.
    * Finally, whe monitor for the assertion of *BVALID*, to check the following properties (they are split for convergence/performance reasons).
        * The value at *BID* must match one of the stored values of AWID (in the case of OOO transactions) or the value stored in the head of the data structure (in case of in-order transactions). Otherwise response is invalid.
        * The value of WLAST stored during the W transaction must be HIGH, otherwise the response is invalid.

> This is how we cover the dependencies between AW, W and B channels, as the rest of scenarios where different order of handshakes can occur needs to fulfill this rule anyway (these scenarios can be observed with a cover property, but is a mere preference of the visualization information this bring to the user, so we decided to not add them).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is how we cover the dependencies between AW, W and B channels, as the rest of the scenarios where different order of handshakes can occur need to fulfill this rule anyway (these scenarios can be observed with a cover property, but this is a mere preference of the visualization information this bring to the user, so we decided to not add them).
```
